Let's look at how we install Maven and the setup and configuration
of it just to get our environment up and running.
To get a copy of it, we just need to navigate to maven.apache.org,
and you can see we have a Download link in the left‑hand section,
or there's one right in the center of our page.
They go to the same place.
I'm going to click on that.
If you ever have a problem getting Maven,
you may want to check to make sure you don't have a mirror that is blocked.
So some companies will block FTP sites. This is a common problem that I see
while people are trying to get various applications downloaded.
They'll go to an FTP site or a mirror that's blocked for whatever reason,
and it will just error out, and they don't know why.
So if you're having a problem downloading it, try one of the different mirrors.
This one should work for us.
I'm going to scroll down on the page a little bit,
and you can see that we have a tar file,
a binary zip archive, and the source code.
A lot of times you don't really need to download the source code.
In fact, I would dare say, rarely do you need to download the source code,
and tarballs are usually for Linux or UNIX‑based environments,
where ZIPs are more for Windows environments.
I'm going to go ahead and download the binary zip archive.
You can see it downloading down below.
I've actually already got it done on my box,
so I'm just going to minimize this and let it finish.
Now I want to open up File Explorer, and I like to create a folder
structure of C:\dev\tools and then expand my JDK there,
my IDE, Maven. Any other tools like that I have,
I like to put underneath this directory.
So I want to go ahead and grab that ZIP file that I've already
downloaded and just copy the contents over there.
Now, as it expands that,
two things. You'll notice that the ZIP file actually comes over as a
folder named the exact same thing inside the ZIP file.
So when you click on this, it should go directly into a bin,
boot, conf, lib directory.
So from our tools directory, you'll see that apache‑maven.
From time to time,
I'll see people who have a nested Apache folder underneath there,
depending on how they've expanded that.
So it'll be apache‑maven‑3.6.1 and a folder inside
that called apache‑maven‑3.6.1, and then it will go into that bin,
conf, lib directory.
So just make sure your structure looks the same,
that it goes into dev, tools, apache‑maven‑3.6.1,
and then you've got your bin directory there.
And I keep referencing the bin file because that's what we're
going to now point our environment variables to.
Let's go ahead and minimize these folders.
Let's go ahead and edit our system environment variables.
Now notice I say system environment variables.
If you click on the user environment variables,
it's not going to let you edit those.
So let's open up this account and say Environment Variables.
And if these are grayed out down here, the New,
Edit, and Delete buttons, it's because you've chosen to edit the user variables.
Let's go ahead and click New, and for the Variable name, we will say JAVA_HOME.
I already installed Java on this OS,
but I have not set up the environment variables.
And if you don't have this set up correctly,
you will get an error when you try to run Maven.
I'm going to click Browse Directory, and I'm going to go to This PC,
and I have all of my stuff under C:, dev,
tools, and I'll click my jdk for the first one and click OK.
So that should say C:\dev\tools\jdk, yours may not be exactly, ‑12.0.1,
do it to the directory that you installed yours to,
and click OK.
And then we want to do one more environment variable.
We'll say New, MAVEN_HOME, and we'll Browse Directory again.
We'll do the same thing. We'll go to C:,
dev, tools, and we have our apache‑maven‑3.6.1 instance there.
Click OK and OK again.
We're almost done; we need to edit the Path.
So if we come over here and say Edit Path, this brings up a different dialog.
If you've used other versions of Windows in the past,
it didn't look the same as this.
We have to do two things here. Want to click New,
and we want to type in %JAVA_HOME%\bin.
And we want to move that up to the very top.
And then we want to do another New, want to do %MAVEN_HOME%\bin,
and move that up to the second position,
just below JAVA_HOME.
Yours should look similar to that, %JAVA_HOME%\bin,
%MAVEN_HOME%\bin, and click OK, click OK,
and then click OK again.
And now we should be able to run a Command Prompt.
And from here I can type java, and I should get different commands for Java.
I should be able to type mvn and get different options for Maven.
The first time you run this,
it's going to give you an error because it can't find a build file.
That's actually correct; we don't have a project set up yet. That's what we're going to do next.